# Chapter 26: Holy Instructions on Unity

---

[https://hermetic.com/moorish/7koran#chapter-xxvi](https://hermetic.com/moorish/7koran#chapter-xxvi)

1. The gifts of understanding are the treasures of God/Allah. He appointed to everyone his portion; in what measures seems good unto himself.
2. Has he endowed you with the wisdom? Has he enlightened your mind with the knowledge of truth? If so, communicate it to the ignorant for their instruction; communicate it to the wise for their own improvement.
3. The wisdom is less presuming than foolishness. The wise man doubts often and changes his mind. The fool is obstinate and stubborn and does not doubt. He knows all things but his own ignorance.
4. The pride of emptiness is an abomination (hate). To talk much is foolishness and folly. However, it is part of wisdom to heart with patience their (the foolish), irrelevance (impertinence, and to pity their absurdity).
5. Yet be not puffed up in the tine own conceit, neither boast of superior understanding. The clearest human knowledge is but blindness and foolishness.
6. The wise man feels his imperfections and is humbled. He labors in vain for his own acceptance. But the fool peeps in the shallow stream of his own mind and is pleased with the pebbles at the bottom. He picks them up and shows them as pearls and with  the delight of his brethren is delighted.
7. He boasts in attainment in things that are of no worth, but where it is a shame to be ignorant, he has no understanding.
8. Even in the path of wisdom, he toils after folly. Shame and disappointment are the reward of his labor.
9. But the wise man cultivates his mind with knowledge; the improvement of the arts in his delight and their utility to the public crowneth with honor.
10. Nevertheless, the attainment of virtue he accounted as the highest learning; and the science of happiness is the study of his life.